{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1038\cocoasubrtf320
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Baskerville;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listname ;}\listid1}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural

\f0\fs58 \cf0 APA P
\fs43\fsmilli21750 APER
\fs58  T
\fs43\fsmilli21750 EMPLATE
\f1\fs24 \
\

\fs36 About
\fs24 \
This template is designed to produce a paper that adheres to the APA (American Psychological Association) format. However, you should check the exact guidelines of the institution to which you are submitting your paper, as there can be slight variations in expectations.\
\

\fs36 How To Use This Template
\fs24 \
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\ls1\ilvl0\cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Write your abstract in the \'93Abstract\'94 document. This document is set to use a Times New Roman 12-point font, double-spaced, and unless you require a different font then you should not change the formatting of this document. This template is set to override the formatting of the body of your essay so that it uses the expected format, so for most of the documents in this project it doesn\'92t matter what font or formatting you use because it will all be dealt with during the Compile process. Some documents require special formatting, though, and so are set to \'93Compile As-Is\'94, meaning that their formatting will not be touched during Compile. The abstract is one such document, because unlike other parts of the paper, the first line of the abstract should not be indented.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Edit the text of the \'93Title Page\'94 document to contain the title of your paper.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Write your introduction in the \'93Introduction\'94 document. (It doesn\'92t matter what formatting you use in this document, as it will be formatted correctly during the Compile process.)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Compose the main body of your paper in text documents inside the \'93Main Content\'94 folder (again, it doesn\'92t matter what formatting you use to draft your essay in these documents as the Compile settings will take care of this). The Compile options are set up so that documents in the first level of the \'93Main Content\'94 folder (\'93Method\'94, \'93Results\'94 and \'93Discussion\'94) will have their titles added in bold and centred, whereas documents at the second level (\'93Participants\'94, \'93Research Design\'94, and so on) with have their titles added in bold and left-aligned. (The documents provided are just by way of example and can be deleted or renamed as necessary.)\
{\listtext	\'95	}Indent block quotes or other special passages using the ruler settings you require in the finished document and enclose them in a \'93Preserve Formatting\'94 block. To do this, select the text of the block quote and go to Format > Formatting > Preserve Formatting. (The quickest way of formatting a block quote is to click in the paragraph and select \'93Essay Block Quote (Preserved)\'94 from the formatting presets, either using the \'93Presets\'85\'94 control in the format bar, or by going to the Format  menu and choosing Formatting > Apply Preset - this will indent the text and apply the \'93Preserve Formatting\'94 block for you.) All other text will have the default APA indentation assigned during the compile process.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Edit the \'93References\'94 file so that it contains your bibliography, being careful to adhere to APA formatting.\
{\listtext	\'95	}This template includes a \'93Footnotes\'94 document which will be used to hold any footnotes you have created in the main body of the text. If you have not created any footnotes, you should either delete this document or deselect its \'93Include in Compile\'94 setting in the inspector or Compile sheet. Note that if you export to RTF or Word .doc format and want footnotes exporting as \'93true\'94 RTF footnotes or endnotes, deselect \'93Flatten footnotes\'94 in the \'93Layout Options\'94 pane of the Compile sheet (note that the \'93Layout Options\'94 pane is only available for RTF and Word .doc formats).\
{\listtext	\'95	}Create as many appendix documents as you require at the end of the \'93Paper\'94 folder, making sure to tick \'93Page Break Before\'94 for each in the inspector or \'93Contents\'94 pane of the Compile settings sheet.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Be sure to fill in the short paper title and your school name in the \'93Replacements\'94 pane of the Compile sheet.\
{\listtext	\'95	}Use File > Compile\'85 to compile your essay for printing.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\qj\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 Sample Document
\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\ql\qnatural
\cf0 The \'93Example Paper\'94 PDF file in the Research folder shows how the essay will look when compiled.\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\sl360\slmult1\qj\pardirnatural

\fs36 \cf0 Final Note
\fs24 \
Scrivener project templates are flexible and are not intended to restrict you to a particular workflow. You can change, delete or move the files and folders contained in the template and you can create your own templates by setting up a skeletal project with the files, folders and settings you would like to use for new projects and using File > Save As Template.}