{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf390
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Verdana;\f1\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720\sl480\slmult1\qc

\f0\fs32 \cf0 References
\f1\fs24 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0 \cf0 Maly, T. (2013). We Have Always Coded. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://Medium.com"}}{\fldrslt Medium.com}}. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://medium.com/weird-future/2acc5ba75929"}}{\fldrslt https://medium.com/weird-future/2acc5ba75929}}\
	This is a humorous article about gender essentialism and code. I think it has some witty remarks in it I may want to use going forward.\
\
\
Fashion article about hegemony of fashion writing and the death of exclusivity, with notes on shows being locked down to resist the blog invasion. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://thenewinquiry.com/essays/cool-fronthot-mess/"}}{\fldrslt http://thenewinquiry.com/essays/cool-fronthot-}}mess/\
\
\
bell hooks. (1992). Is Paris Burning?. Black looks: race and representation (pp. 145-156). Boston, MA: South End Press.\
	bell hooks is always useful in concert with Derrida to explain that you can\'92t actually know what anyone else is actually thinking; having sympathy for other people is not the same as understanding their direct experience. Useful because it underlies a lot of feminist practice\
\
Bizzocchi, J. & Tanenbaum, J. (2011) Well Read: Applying Close Reading Techniques to Gameplay \
	Experiences. In Well-Played 3.0, Drew Davidson Eds., Etc press\
	www.etc.cmu.edu\'97well-read-jim-bizzocchi-joshua-tanenbaum\
	Something to explain game design processes in the technical section of the document.\
\
Buxton, W. (2007) Sketching User Experiences: Getting the Design Right and the Right Design. Morgan Kaufmann Publishers. \
	Something to explain user interface design practices in the technical section.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf0 Chun, W. H. (2011). Invisibly Visible; Visibly Invisible and On Sourcery and Source Code. Programmed visions software and memory (pp. 1-54). Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	Still need to read this, but the title is pretty relevant to the central research question of my thesis, which is on the value of code and invisibility as a permission.\
\
Cixous, H., Cohen, K., & Cohen, P. (1976). The Laugh Of The Medusa. 
\i Signs: Journal of Women in Culture and Society
\i0 , 
\i 1
\i0 (4), 875.\
	Woman must write her own desires into being in order to be seen\
\
\
Deleuze, G., & Guattari, F. (1987). Introduction:Rhizome. 
\i A thousand plateaus: capitalism and schizophrenia
\i0  (pp. 3-4). Minneapolis: University of Minnesota Press.\
	Everyone else is doing it [including them]. May as well. I gather they\'92re popular right now.\
\
\
Deleuze, G. (1992). Postscript on the Societies of Control. 
\i October
\i0 , 
\i Winter
\i0 (59), 3-7.\
	Surveillance culture is bad for people, yet inevitable as it becomes automated.\
\
\
Dell, K. (1998). Contract with the skin: masochism, performance art, and the 1970's. Minneapolis:University of Minnesota Press.\
	This moves into abjection, which is important to the technical section of this project; how people will destroy themselves in and for their art. There could be an interesting sub-section on the ways computer technicians break themselves, for instance. Mainly interesting because it lets me wrap a box in skin and call it art.\
\
\
Doctorow, C. (2008). 
\i Little Brother
\i0 . New York: Tom Doherty Associates.\
	More surveillance culture. Like a How-To novel of Deleuze in more legible writing.\
\
Doctorow, C. (2012). 
\i Pirate Cinema
\i0 . New York: Tom Doherty Associates, LLC.\
	Like the above, but this time for copyright people trying to cut off access to the internet. Only narrowly useful.\
\
Gleick, J. (2011). The information: a history, a theory, a flood. New York: Pantheon Books.\
	A survey text of the history and development of data-centric information technology. Explains a little of the context for how tools like screenperfect can be expected, themselves, to proliferate to the point of uselessness.\
\
Gram, S. (2013, March 1). Textual Relations: The Young-Girl and the Selfie. 
\i Textual Relations
\i0 . Retrieved \
	April 12, 2013, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://text-relations.blogspot.ca/2013/03/the-young-girl-and-selfie.html"}}{\fldrslt http://text-relations.blogspot.ca/2013/03/the-young-girl-and-selfie.html}}\
	Young women\'92s bodies are not only super-powerful, but can be the stereotype vehicles for all of consumer culture. \
	\
\
Grosz, E. A. (2008). Chaos, Cosmos, Territory, Architecture. 
\i Chaos, territory, art: Deleuze and the framing \
	of the earth
\i0  (pp. 15-28). New York: Columbia University Press.\
	Technology as sexual performance and definition of space. Not terribly well-realized but more academic than other sources on the same subject.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf0 Haraway, D. (1987). A Manifesto For Cyborgs: Science, Technology, And Socialist Feminism In The 1980s. 		Australian Feminist Studies, 2(4), 1-42.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	Primary text on women restructuring their bodies, invisibly, to take over the world. See also Quinn Norton on IUDs ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.quinnnorton.com/said/?p=404"}}{\fldrslt http://www.quinnnorton.com/said/?p=404}})\
\
\
Haraway, D. (2009). The companion species manifesto: dogs, people and significant otherness. Chicago, 		Ill.: Prickly Paradigm Press.\
	More Haraway. Now on cancer, not sex.\
\
Hunicke, R., LeBlanc, M., Zubek, R. (2004) MDA: A Formal Approach to Game Design and Game Research. sakai.rutgers.edu\'97hunicke_2004.pdf\
	More on game design techniques for the technical portions of the paper. \
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf0 Kristeva, J. (1982). Powers of horror: an essay on abjection. New York: Columbia University Press. ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.csus.edu/indiv/o/obriene/art206/readings/kristeva%20-%20powers%20of%20horror%5B1%5D.pdf"}}{\fldrslt http://www.csus.edu/indiv/o/obriene/art206/readings/kristeva%20-%20powers%20of%20horror[1].pdf}})\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	Horrifying things have a power that is more potent than any non-horrifying things could hope to possess. This paper details why that is. It goes very nicely with Cixous and discussions of the IUD, because it is about what happens when barriers truly break down. I think Kristeva\'92s horrors are basically the key to the entire news cycle and Grand Theft Auto to boot.\
\
\
Krug, Steve (2000) Don\'92t Make Me Think: A Common Sense Approach to Web Usability.\
	Riders Publishers.\
	This is another technical paper for arguing that software design should be totally invisible.\
\
\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 Schafer, T. (1998). Grim Fandango (1.0) [Video Game]. USA:LucasArts.\
	Classic adventure game with minimal interface and a fixed runthrough. One of the last great adventure games.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Luvaas, B. (2006). Re-producing pop: The aesthetics of ambivalence in a contemporary dance music.
\i International Journal of Cultural Studies
\i0 , 
\i 9
\i0 (6), 167-187. Retrieved April 10, 2013, from the \
	Scholar's Portal database.\
	An interesting look at what ethnographic research can be, and the speed of cultural shift and recycle since the rise of the internet. To be read in concert with various VICE mag articles about cocaine, new york. Used originally in article about Seapunk movement.\
\
Moggridge, Bill (2006). Designing Interactions. MIT Press, Cambridge MA.\
	More technical reading about how people interact with software.\
\
Moyer, J. (2012, September 14). Our Band Could Be Your Band: How the Brooklynization of culture killed \
	regional music scenes - Washington City Paper. 
\i Washington City Paper - D.C. Arts, News, Food and 	\
	Living
\i0 . Retrieved April 22, 2013, from \
	
\fs18 http://www.washingtoncitypaper.com/articles/43235/our-band-could-be-your-band-how-the-brooklynization-of/\
\

\fs24 	Cultural uniformity because the internet makes things from different places seem the same, even though they\'92re really not the same.\
\
Mulvey, L. (1975). Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cinema. 
\i Screen
\i0 , 
\i 16
\i0 (3), 6-18.\
	On the male gaze, which is the central gaze in most videogames, particularly first-person shooters.	\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf0 One Laptop per Child. (n.d.). One Laptop per Child. Retrieved July 3, 2013, from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://one.laptop.org/"}}{\fldrslt http://one.laptop.org/}}\
	I was thinking about discussing how the OLPC project led to various other tech advances, including the rasPI - it made netbooks happen, then tablets happened. The OLPC was the project that said \'93wait, things don\'92t need to be 
\i faster
\i0 , they need to be 
\i better.
\i0 \'94 Absolute disaster; in the countries it was intended for, it was already superceded by mobile phones. Classic example of condescending outsiders trying to Make A Difference rather than examining difference. Probably too broad a scope for this project.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 \
Orlan: a hybrid body of artworks. (2010). London [u.a.: Routledge.\
	Orlan led to Lady Gaga so directly that she has since sued her. Discussing the liminality and limits of flesh without Orlan\'92s surgeries is a challenge; almost no other artist (burden? Shoot) has gone so far, but this distance is collapsed in film like Nip|tuck and the normalization of Hollywood surgery.\
\
Reines, A., & TIQQUN. (2012). 
\i Preliminary materials for a theory of the young-girl
\i0 . Los Angeles, CA: Semiotext(e)\
	\'85 Besides, who needs a new body when their old one is already a pure commodity and an act of war? Misogynistic. But excellent. Some people say it\'92s not brave to publish anonymously, but this came out originally in 1999 and was excellent and stood opposed to more optimistic cyborg narratives. Which is good, because assuming anyone\'92s going to get up to unforbidden things with new technology is unwise, even as we cannot plan for those things.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sl280
\cf0 Stephenson, N. (1995). The diamond age, or, Young lady's illustrated primer. New York: Bantam Books.\
	This is pretty well a perfect piece of fiction about cyborgs and universal education and China as an Oriental-escape paradise. Fun look at a post-scarcity economy that has simultaneously happened and can\'92t happen.\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 \
Sternberg, M. (2012). They Bleed Pixels (1.0) [Video Game]. Toronto:SpookySquid Games.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	Excellent representation of a female lead game character in a genuinely challenging platformer.\
	\
Swartz, A. (2013). 
\i Aaron Swartz's A programmable Web an unfinished work
\i0 . San Rafael, Calif.: Morgan & Claypool Publishers.\
	The internet doesn\'92t belong to us, but it could, and here are some technical guidelines to pursuing that as a worthy goal.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 Team Little Angels (2009). Bayonetta (1.0) [Video Game]. Japan:Sega.\
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf0 	What a hilariously sexist but also perfect meta-narrative of female power while subject to the male gaze. The rudest, most violent fun game released to ever feature a lady protected, literally, by her hair.\
\
Toom, A. (2012). Considering the Artistry and Epistemology of Tacit Knowledge and Knowing. 
\i Educational \
	Theory
\i0 , 
\i 62
\i0 , 621-640. Retrieved April 12, 2013, from the 	Scholar's Portal database.\
	More technical information on how to design interfaces so that people understand, passively, what they\'92re supposed to do with it.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sl320
\cf0 Volition Inc. (2011). Saint\'92s Row the Third (1.0) [Video Game]. USA:THQ.\
	This and the followup, Saint\'92s Row 4. Games that took the GTA pattern and subverted it to make a game that is cleverly and strongly and messily about playing video games and the fantasies of those games.}