{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1187\cocoasubrtf370
{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Cochin;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Things the thesis should have in it:\
\
- Helene Cixous\
- Video Games\
- Reflective practice\
- Swarm. I could build swarm. \
\'97 Swarm is an array of mechanical critters that try to attract, then repulse attention.\
\'97 This would involve sorting out how people 
\i pay
\i0  attention, and if they do; they mainly don\'92t.\
- Emma would like me to continue work on psXXYborg, which would result in the psXXYborg system being released; nodeJS/websockets to control a projection of video, but I would rather make an app that examines privacy issues and local art in transient spaces through push notifications based on GPS.\
- Relates to Feisel\'92s weakass protestor game.\
- What do I want 
\i after?
\i0 \
- I want to have the rainbow gun complete by September.\
- I want to be able to hook it to a sensor array to control the various outputs; the different colours of fire and the gun itself.\
- 
\b The tattoo printer. I could also build a CNC tattoo machine, which would be interesting in that I could use an eggbot or another Arduino Mega thing, and automate the tattooing of large sheets of leather and cast dragon skin. 
\b0 \
\'97 I\'92m interested in visions of voluntary transgressive abjection. I like projects that make people\'92s brains melt, slightly; things like Seizuredome and the Jellyfish.\
\'97 I\'92m interested in these because they are reflective of a big, bad world where terrible things must be constantly overcome until they become normal, entirely usual.\
\'97 If the Tattoo Printer was the material output, and the exhibition of it was related to\'85 what? What part of my web development practice would that be? How would I assemble it?\
\'97 Ultimately, completing and releasing psyTools is probably more important. \
\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\fi360\sl288\slmult1\pardirnatural
\cf0 \
As we live within an economy that values, more than ever, cleanliness, even as it fetishizes dirt (the Marlboro Man, the cowboy, the lumberjack aesthetic of Brooklyn), the tensions between these points become evident. One cannot, any longer, simply teach art, or 
\i be
\i0  an artistic producer; it isn\'92t enough. The money isn\'92t good enough, so we pursue work within a ghost economy, chasing jobs with brains rather than the work of the body. It was bad work, but it was real; now, the work done by adjunct professors to justify academic achievement seems hollow, a 
\i kabuki 
\i0  of experience rather than a real thing. To put a sheen of achievement on something simply because the work has been typed and read rather than hammered out or lacquered seems unfortunate, even on the face of it. How to effectively rebel? What to produce, when programs won\'92t allow private access to chop saws or any form of dirt? Are we to all become graphic designers, though those jobs, too, are worth less and less? Which thoughts stand out against the international economy? If cries of \'93bullshit\'94 resound within the classrooms of the academy itself while considering written works, and if they seem fair, how can we justify our own work? How can we define it as work, when nothing has been moved?}